# Slackware

Slackware is a Linux distribution created by Patrick Volkerding in 1993. Originally based on Softlanding Linux System, Slackware has been the basis for many other Linux distributions, most notably the first versions of SUSE Linux distributions, and is the oldest distribution that is still maintained.

Slackware aims for design stability and simplicity and to be the most "Unix-like" Linux distribution.[4] It makes as few modifications as possible to software packages from upstream and tries not to anticipate use cases or preclude user decisions. In contrast to most modern Linux distributions, Slackware provides no graphical installation procedure and no automatic dependency resolution of software packages. It uses plain text files and only a small set of shell scripts for configuration and administration. Without further modification it boots into a command-line interface environment. Because of its many conservative and simplistic features, Slackware is often considered to be most suitable for advanced and technically inclined Linux users.

Slackware is available for the IA-32 and x86_64 architectures, with a port to the ARM architecture. While Slackware is mostly free and open-source software, it does not have a formal bug tracking facility or public code repository, with releases periodically announced by Volkerding. There is no formal membership procedure for developers and Volkerding is the primary contributor to releases. 

Want to give Slackware 15.0 a test drive without modifying your disk drive? Then check out Slackware Live Edition! This is a complete Slackware installation that can run from a DVD or USB stick. Thanks to Eric Hameleers for the great work on this! Here's where to find it: https://download.liveslak.org/

# Slackware installation

- Hardware Requirement

Slackware Linux doesn't require an extremely powerful system to run (though having one is quite nice :). It will run on systems as far back as the 486. Below is a list of minimum system requirements needed to install and run Slackware.

    486 processor
    64MB RAM (1GB+ suggested)
    About 5GB+ of hard disk space for a full install
    CD or DVD drive (if not bootable, then a bootable USB flash stick or PXE server/network card) 

Additional hardware may be needed if you want to run the X Window System at a usable speed or if you want network capabilities. 

- Download Slackware latest ISO

https://mirrors.slackware.com/slackware/slackware-iso/

- Booting the Installer
  Booting the installer is simply a process of inserting the Slackware install disk into your CD or DVD drive and rebooting. Once your computer boots from the CD you'll be taken to a screen that allows you to enter any special kernel parameters. This is here primarily to allow you to use the installer as a sort of rescue disk. Some systems may need special kernel parameters in order to boot, but these are very rare exceptions to the norm. Most users can simply press enter to let the kernel boot. 

  You should see a lot of text go flying across your screen. Don't be alarmed, this is all perfectly normal. The text you see is generated by the kernel during boot-up as it discovers your hardware and prepares to load the operating system (in this case, the installer). You can later read these messages with the dmesg(1) command if you're interested. Often these messages are very important for troubleshooting any hardware problems you may have. Once the kernel has completed its hardware discovery, the messages should stop and you'll be given an option to load support for non-us keyboards. 

  Unlike other Linux distributions which boot you directly into a dedicated installer program, Slackware's installer drops you into a limited Linux distribution loaded into your system's RAM. This limited distribution is then used to run all the installation programs manually, or can be used in emergencies to fix a broken system that fails to boot. Now that you're logged in as root (there is no password within the installer) it's time to start setting up your disks. 

- Setup RAID/LVM/Partitioning
  
    At this point, you may setup software RAID or LVM support if you wish or even an encrypted root partition. 

The Slackware installation media comes with tools to partition a hard drive.
Usually partitioning a hard disk process is composed of these steps:

    Running the desired partitioning tool on the target HDD.
    Showing the current partition table to see if there are any installed partitions.
    If needed, deleting partitions.
    Create a new partition.
    Selecting the type and size of the new partition.
    Continuing to create partitions as planned.
    Changing types of the partition (Swap, Linux, Solaris, etc).
    Setting a bootable flag to a desired partition.
    Writing the partition table.

We can create partitions to install this Linux properly whether using fdisk or cfdisk. However, I recommend cfdisk which gives menu-based partition options.

- Deny root logins.

Not only is it uncommon to work as the root user, it is not considered secure to login as root across the network. Administrative users usually connect to a UNIX box as their regular, user-name login, then su to root as needed. To prevent crackers, hackers, and ignorant users from logging in directly as root, edit the file /etc/securetty and comment out (prepend a pound (#) sign before) all but the local terminals:



After this fix, users who attempt to login in as root across the network will be denied: 

Apply the simple fixes.

Slackware installs itself with some very real security problems. Rather than master UNIX security and sleuth out these vulnerabilities yourself, you can jump start the hole-patching process by visiting a Web resource maintained for just this purpose, called Slackware SimpleFixes:


- Check for patches on ftp.cdrom.com

As an actively maintained Linux distribution, Slackware updates and patches are available from:


- Stay current.

You might like to subscribe to one or more electronic mailing lists that alert users to issues in Linux administration, such as:


# Commands

- Installing RPM Files On Slackware Based Distributions 

1. Download the RPM file
2. Login to your console as root and use rpm2tgz command to convert those RPM files into TGZ (.tgz) files. Slackware use TGZ files as its software package manager. `rpm2tgz foo-x.x.xx.rpm`
3. The result is a .tgz file, so after the conversion is finished, the original RPM can safely be discarded. 
4. Use installpkg `installpkg foo-x.x.xx.tgz` to install the Slackware package you've just created, provided that you've installed all dependency code for the application to actually function. 


Building from source code or creating your own Slackware package is usually not as complex as you might think but installing directly from source code is generally discouraged because there is no easy way to track what has been installed on your system after issuing the make install command.

> While a Slackware package is just a shell script and source code, an RPM package can by comparison be a maze of dependency listings and special instructions. Therefore, rpm2tgz will not always work, especially on very complex applications, and it will never magically resolve dependencies. 


- Installing, Removing, and Upgrading Packages

 While pkgtool scores points for convenience, installpkg(8) is much more capable of handling odd tasks, such as quickly installing a single package, installing an entire disk set of packages, or scripting an install. installpkg takes a list of packages to install, and simply installs them without asking any questions. Like all Slackware package management tools, it assumes that you know what you're doing and doesn't pretend to be smarter than you. In its simplest form, installpkg simply takes a list of packages to install, and does exactly what you would expect.

`darkstar:~# installpkg blackbox-0.70.1-i486-2.txz`

At any given time, you can see what packages are installed on your system by listing the contents of /var/log/packages, which lists not only every application on your system but also the version number. Should you want to know what individual files were installed as a part of that package, cat the contents of the package: 

`darkstar:~#cat /var/log/packages/foo-1.0-x86_64.txz`

This will return everything from the size of the package, a description of what it does, and the name and location of every file installed as a part of the package. 

To remove the package use `removepkg`, it will check the contents of the package database and remove all the files and directories for that package with one caveat. If that file is included in multiple installed packages, it will be skipped and if a directory has new files in it, the directory will be left in place. Because of this, removing packages takes a good while longer than installing them. 

Upgrading the package is using `upgradepkg` which first installs a new package, then removes whatever files and directories are left-over from the old package. One important thing to remember is that upgradepkg doesn't check to see if the previously installed package has a higher version number than the “new” package, so it can also be used to downgrade to older versions. 

- Package Compression Formats

In the past, all Slackware packages were compressed with the gzip(1) compression utility, which was a good compromise between compression speed and size.Recently, new compression schemes have been added and the package management tools have been upgraded to handle these. Today, official Slackware packages are compressed with the xz utility and end with .txz extensions.Older packages (and many third party packages) still use the .tgz extension.

It's worth emphasizing that .tgz and .txz (or, more succinctly, .t?z files) are very standard, non-unique extensions for compressed .tar files. This has many advantages; they're easy to build on nearly any UNIX system (many other package formats require special toolchains), and they're just as simple to de-construct.

However, it is also important to realize that just because all Slackware packages are .t?z files, not all .t?z files are Slackware packages. Installpkg won't magically install just any .t?z file, only Slackware packages.
